README.md, before:

# Black Code Format Action

A GitHub Action that runs Black code formatter on your Python code and provides formatting feedback directly in your pull requests.

## Features

- Runs Black code formatter on Python files
- Comments on pull requests with formatting results
- Updates existing comments instead of creating new ones
- Configurable paths to check
- Optional failure on formatting issues
- Automatic Python setup
- Detailed formatting instructions in comments
- Customizable Black arguments

## Usage

Add this to your GitHub workflow:

```yaml
name: Black Code Format Check

on:
  pull_request:
    branches: [ main, develop ]
    paths:
      - '**.py'

jobs:
  black:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: your-username/black-action@v1
        with:
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          python-version: '3.x'        # optional, default is '3.x'
          black-version: '23.12.0'     # optional, default is '23.12.0'
          black-args: '--check --verbose'  # optional, default is '--check --verbose'
          paths: 'src tests'           # optional, default is '.'
          fail-on-error: 'true'        # optional, default is 'true'
```

## Inputs

| Input | Description | Required | Default |
|-------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `github-token` | GitHub token for PR comments | Yes | `${{ github.token }}` |
| `python-version` | Python version to use | No | '3.x' |
| `black-version` | Black version to use | No | '23.12.0' |
| `black-args` | Space-separated Black arguments | No | '--check --verbose' |
| `paths` | Space-separated paths to check | No | '.' |
| `fail-on-error` | Whether to fail on formatting issues | No | 'true' |

## Examples

### Check specific directories
```yaml
- uses: your-username/black-action@v1
  with:
    paths: 'src tests scripts'
```

### Format check without failing
```yaml
- uses: your-username/black-action@v1
  with:
    fail-on-error: 'false'
```

### Custom Black arguments
```yaml
- uses: your-username/black-action@v1
  with:
    black-args: '--check --diff --color'
```

## How it works

1. Sets up Python environment
2. Installs Black with specified version
3. Runs Black with custom arguments on specified paths
4. Creates or updates a PR comment with results
5. Fails the check if formatting issues are found (configurable)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Update README.md to document required permissions for GitHub Action
- Added a section detailing the necessary permissions for the action to function correctly, including `contents: read`, `issues: write`, and `pull-requests: write`.
- Updated the workflow example to reflect these permissions, ensuring users understand the requirements for proper setup.

These changes enhance the clarity of the README and guide users in configuring the action effectively.

README.md, after:

# Black Code Format Action

A GitHub Action that runs Black code formatter on your Python code and provides formatting feedback directly in your pull requests.

## Features

- Runs Black code formatter on Python files
- Comments on pull requests with formatting results
- Updates existing comments instead of creating new ones
- Configurable paths to check
- Optional failure on formatting issues
- Automatic Python setup
- Detailed formatting instructions in comments
- Customizable Black arguments

## Usage

Add this to your GitHub workflow:

```yaml
name: Black Code Format Check

on:
  pull_request:
    branches: [ main, develop ]
    paths:
      - '**.py'

permissions:
  contents: read
  issues: write
  pull-requests: write

jobs:
  black:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: your-username/black-action@v1
        with:
          github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          python-version: '3.x'        # optional, default is '3.x'
          black-version: '23.12.0'     # optional, default is '23.12.0'
          black-args: '--check --verbose'  # optional, default is '--check --verbose'
          paths: 'src tests'           # optional, default is '.'
          fail-on-error: 'true'        # optional, default is 'true'
```

## Required Permissions

The action needs the following permissions to work properly:
- `contents: read` - To read the repository contents
- `issues: write` - To create/update comments on issues
- `pull-requests: write` - To create/update comments on pull requests

These permissions should be added to your workflow file as shown in the example above.

## Inputs

| Input | Description | Required | Default |
|-------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `github-token` | GitHub token for PR comments | Yes | `${{ github.token }}` |
| `python-version` | Python version to use | No | '3.x' |
| `black-version` | Black version to use | No | '23.12.0' |
| `black-args` | Space-separated Black arguments | No | '--check --verbose' |
| `paths` | Space-separated paths to check | No | '.' |
| `fail-on-error` | Whether to fail on formatting issues | No | 'true' |

## Examples

### Check specific directories
```yaml
- uses: your-username/black-action@v1
  with:
    paths: 'src tests scripts'
```

### Format check without failing
```yaml
- uses: your-username/black-action@v1
  with:
    fail-on-error: 'false'
```

### Custom Black arguments
```yaml
- uses: your-username/black-action@v1
  with:
    black-args: '--check --diff --color'
```

## How it works

1. Sets up Python environment
2. Installs Black with specified version
3. Runs Black with custom arguments on specified paths
4. Creates or updates a PR comment with results
5. Fails the check if formatting issues are found (configurable)

## License

MIT
